Hey everyone! Thanks for showing up. This is an introductory workshop for VR development. Today we are going to show you how to make a simple gaze shooter using Unity. For those who don't know what a gaze shooter is, it is a reletively common type of VR game where you shoot at things that are around you using your head to aim. Using VR headtracking to aim and shoot things is a pretty obvious use of the technology, so gaze shooters were the first things a lot of VR developers made when they got their hands on their first headsets. [example]

We will be using Unity game engine for this workshop. You can download it for free at [link]. If you want to make apps for Google Cardboard, make sure you select Android [???] when installing, and install the Android SDK using the instructions here [link]. When you launch Unity this screen will pop up showing all your previous projects. Click new to create a new project. Choose a location and name for the project, click 3D, then click create.

This is what you see when you open up a new project. This bottom panel here is the project explorer, where you can view all the files and folders in the project. Let's start by saving the scene. A scene is pretty much what it sound like; a self contained arrangement of objects that correspond to something like a single level in a game. The left panel shows the hierarchy of objects in a scene. Our scene currently has only a camera and a light. The right panel is the inspector, where you can adjust parameters of objects such as the position of the camera or the color of the light. The Scene view in the middle shows a 3D view of the scene. And if you click the play button, the game will run and the middle view will switch to game view. Right now we don't have any objects we can see or any way to move the camera, so all we can see is a static view of the skybox background.

We are going to be making our app for Google Cardboard, and theres a couple things we need to do to enable that before we start adding stuff to the scene. First, we need to switch the target platform for our app to Android. Go to the top menu, click file, then click build settings. Click on Android, then click switch platform. We also need Goole's VR plugin for unity. You can download it at [url]. To import the plugin, go to the top menu and click on Assets, import package, custom package. Wait until the package is decrypted, then click import. Finally to make a scene work with Cardboard, you need to add the Google VRViewer prefab to the scene. Prefabs are premade sets of objects and components that are made to save you the trouble of setting them up yourself. In the project explorer, open the GoogleVR folder and the Prefabs folder, then just drag the GvrViewerMain prefab into the scene.

Now when you hit play the game view will show the distorted output for left and right eyes that Cardboard apps use. When viewed through a Cardboard headset, the headset's lense will distort the image in the opposite way, resulting in an image that looks normal to the person using the headset. You can also now simulate head rotation with the mouse. Holding down the alt key lets you look up and down and left and right. Holding the ctrl key lets you tilt the view from side to side.

Before we start making the scene more complex, let's try building the app to make sure everything is set up right. Building a project creates a standalone distributable file that can run the project, like an .exe file on Windows, or in the case of Android an .apk file. Enable USB debugging on your android device, connect it to your computer, and make sure the neccessary drivers are installed. Then go to the top menu, click file, build and run. The first time you do this, you will need to add your scene to the build by clicking add open scenes, and select a location and name for your build file after clicking build and run again.